Use quarkus with Google Cloud Run And CloudSQL (#6634)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/deploying-to-google-cloud.adoc

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/master/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= Quarkus - Deploying on Google cloud platform

include::./attributes.adoc[]

This guide covers:

> * Connecting to a CloudSQL postgresql instance with quarkus-agroal and service account using CloudRun

Reviewer: Please don't use lists if you have only one item.

== Prerequisites

For this guide you need:

* roughly 1 hour
* having access to an Google cloud platform project with owner rights.

> This guide will take as input an application developed in the link:datasource.adoc[datasource guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will take as input an application developed in the link:datasource[datasource guide].
```

Make sure you have the application at hand working locally.

== Solution

We recommend to follow the instructions in the next sections and build the application step by step.

== Connecting to CloudSQL

Google CloudSQL managed service allows 4 kinds of connection :

. Using public IP
. Using private IP
. Using Cloud SQL Proxy
. Using service account

> The first two don't need anymore details, simply connect to you database following the link:datasource.adoc[datasource guide].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first two don't need anymore details, simply connect to your database by following the link:datasource.adoc[datasource guide].
```

Author: > Added more comments. Will this work in native too?
To be honest. I compiled it in native mode. run the code. But I didn't actually connect to SQL from Cloud Run.

> The first two don't need anymore details, simply connect to your database following the link:datasource.adoc[datasource guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first two don't need more details, simply connect to your database following the link:datasource[datasource guide].
```

> The third allows you to connect as if locally, but is not available for AppEngine or CloudRun where you only deploy one artefact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The third allows you to connect as if locally, but is not available for AppEngine or CloudRun where you only deploy one artifact.
```

Please check link:https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/external-connection-methods?hl=en[Connection options for external applications].

This guide will help you through the fourth possibility : connecting using service account.

== Adding necessary dependencies to your application.

> You will need to add the _Cloud SQL Postgres Socket Factory_ and postgresql driver dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to add the _Cloud SQL Postgres Socket Factory_ and the PostgreSQL JDBC driver extension.
```

With maven :
[source,xml, subs="attributes"]
----
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.google.cloud.sql/postgres-socket-factory -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.google.cloud.sql</groupId>
    <artifactId>postgres-socket-factory</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.15</version>
</dependency>

> <!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.quarkus/quarkus-jdbc-postgresql -->

Reviewer: Please remove the 2 links.

<dependency>
    <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>quarkus-jdbc-postgresql</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

With Gradle :
[source,groovy, subs="attributes"]
----
// https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.google.cloud.sql/postgres-socket-factory
compile group: 'com.google.cloud.sql', name: 'postgres-socket-factory', version: '1.0.15'
// https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.quarkus/quarkus-jdbc-postgresql

> compile group: 'io.quarkus', name: 'quarkus-jdbc-postgresql', version: '1.1.1.Final'

Reviewer: Same here about the links. The version should be enforced here, you shouldn't have to define it. If so, you should use `{quarkus-version}`.

Author: I removed the Gradle example

----

== Configuring the CloudSQL instance

If you haven't already please follow the link:https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/create-instance[Creating instances guide].

Ensure you have a service account with _Cloud SQL Client_ role (minimum necessary role), and get your instance connection name (`PROJECT_ID:REGION:INSTANCE_ID`).

== Configuring the application

Configure your quarkus application as follows :

[source,properties]
--
quarkus.datasource.url=jdbc:postgresql:///${DB_NAME}
quarkus.datasource.driver=org.postgresql.Driver
quarkus.datasource.username = ${DB_USER}
quarkus.datasource.password = ${DB_PASSWORD}
quarkus.datasource.socket-factory=com.google.cloud.sql.postgres.SocketFactory
quarkus.datasource.additional-jdbc-properties=cloud-sql-instance=project:zone:db-name
--

> Prefere the use of environment variables that will allow you to connect to all your env depending on your runtime values

Reviewer 2: This sentence is a bit confusing

Author: I changed this sentence. Please take a look now if it is more clear

> NOTE: To set the environment variables(DB_NAME, DB_USER, DB_PASSWORD) when deploying to CloudRun there is an option  `ADD VARIABLE`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: To set the environment variables (DB_NAME, DB_USER, DB_PASSWORD) when deploying to CloudRun there is an option  `ADD VARIABLE`.
```

. Using public IP
. Using private IP
. Using Cloud SQL Proxy
. Using service account

The first two don't need anymore details, simply connect to you database following the link:datasource.adoc[datasource guide].
The third allows you to connect as if locally, but is not available for AppEngine or CloudRun where you only deploy one artefact.
Please check link:https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/external-connection-methods?hl=en[Connection options for external applications].

This guide will help you through the fourth possibility : connecting using service account.

== Adding necessary dependencies to your application.

You will need to add the _Cloud SQL Postgres Socket Factory_ and postgresql driver dependencies.

With maven :
[source,xml, subs="attributes"]
----
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.google.cloud.sql/postgres-socket-factory -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.google.cloud.sql</groupId>
    <artifactId>postgres-socket-factory</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.15</version>
</dependency>
<!-- https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.postgresql/postgresql -->
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.postgresql</groupId>

>     <artifactId>postgresql</artifactId>

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't the `quarkus-jdbc-postgresql` extension be added instead?

Author: You are correct. I updated the documentation
